Intro-
The Airports Authority of India or AAI is a statutory body (created through the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994) working under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, 
Government of India is responsible for creating, upgrading, maintaining and managing civil aviation infrastructure in India. It provides Communication Navigation Surveillance / Air
 Traffic Management (CNS/ATM) services over Indian airspace and adjoining oceanic areas. With the mission to be the foundation of an enduring Indian aviation network, providing high 
quality, safe and customer oriented airport & air navigation services, AAI is currently managing a total of 137 Airports,including 23 International Airports, 10 Customs Airports, 
81 Domestic Airports and 23 Civil enclaves at Defense Airfields. 
Mr.Arvind Singh is the chairman of AAI.


Current Licensing Process-
All the aerodromes in India had been developed over a period of time and there was no strict regulatory control over the aerodromes as they were maintained by governments 
directly and such bodies were performing dual functions of the regulator and service provider both. Most of the airports in the country have been in existence since the 
pre-independence era and have been developed subsequently to meet the requirement of the traffic as well as aircraft operations. These airports have been upgraded in terms of the 
runway and associated facilities on the need basis. In view of the large number of aerodromes to be licensed, a phased approach was taken by the regulator i.e. DGCA of India, 
wherein priority was given to licensing the international aerodromes in the first phase. In the subsequent phase, licensing of aerodromes other than international aerodromes has 
been taken. To deal with the challenge of licensing of AAI aerodromes, a separate Aerodrome Licensing Directorate has been established in AAI. Aerodrome Licensing Directorate ensured 
licensing of all AAI International, Customs and other domestic airports where schedule aircraft operations take place by guiding the field stations and liasioning with DGCA. Most 
challenging task for the Directorate was to license RCS airports operated and managed by AAI. AAI also provides hand holding to State Government and some private airports to obtain 
License for their airports.


DGCA-
The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is the statutory body formed under the Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020. This directorate investigates aviation accidents and incidents.
It is headquartered along Sri Aurobindo Marg, opposite Safdarjung Airport, in New Delhi.The Government of India is planning to replace the organisation
 with a Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), modelled on the lines of the American Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).